So we want to make sure that the user is sent to the find place page
once he's done creating a new place and that's important. In share place,
I don't want to navigate here, we could easily do this with this props navigator and then there actually
is a switch to tab function you can use,
you can always check out the official react native navigation documentation to learn about all possible
functions.
So there is such a function, we could pass a javascript object to that
and for this object, we would have to set a tab index property which is the well index of the tab we
want to go to,
so it starts at zero,
this would be the first tab.
Now this would work but it would immediately go there without waiting for this creation process to finish,
I want to show the user this spinner though and I want to show that something is happening, instead
therefore I want to navigate from within my store. There if we have a look at the places file, we have
this add place action creator and
there we do all these add place stuff but here in this then block, we're finally done,
we are in the success version of this
and we created a place. Now therefore here when we stop loading,
I want to navigate away, to ensure or to achieve this, I'll actually add a new action type,
place added maybe
and this should be triggered when the place indeed was added. For this,
I'll also create a new action creator, maybe right below the add place action creator, I'll name it place added, it
takes no argument but it does one thing,
it returns a new action object,
so no asynchronous action, no function action creator,
a plain vanilla action creator where I just set the type and I set the type to this type I just created so I'll
import it here,
place added, from action types,
I'll import it here
and then here I'll set this as the type, place added.
With that, I can go to my reducer, to the places reducer and add a new case where I want to handle this
case that we have added a place, so I'll import it too, place added and then add place, add it here.
Now there I then want to return my new state where I copy the old state but where I want to set a
new property which I have yet to add
and I'll name it place added which initially is false, I'll here set it to true, place added should
be true here.
Now to ever have a chance of getting out of this, I'll add another action type, export
const, start add place maybe
because I need to be able to reset this at some point of time
otherwise we later get in a state where we can never add a second place.
So I'll also add an action creator for this,
maybe right at the start of my places action creator file, start add place, like that.
This also takes no argument but will return a javascript object which is representing the action we're
dispatching,
so I'll also import this start add place type and assign it here to this type. In my reducer,
besides handling place added,
I'll then also add a case for this new action type, start add place which I also import and here we'll
handle it, start add place, there
I will return my old state but I will also set place added to false. With that reducer updated, let's
save it, we can now use these new actions.
First of all in my index.js file in the actions folder, I want to export them so I'll export my place
added action creator and my start add place action creator and restructure all of that,
so that is what I changed, just added these two exports. And now in share place, I want to dispatch start
place add
whenever we visit this page and I want to dispatch this other action whenever we're done adding a place,
so from within my places.js file, here in this
then block where I dispatch UI stop loading,
I also want to dispatch place added, just like this.
Now we have this place added state and I want to connect it to my share place, there
I already have map state to props, I will add place added at the bottom and map it to state places,
that's the slice created by this places reducer and then here, we added a
place added property, that's this property we're setting here, place added. So now I'm binding to this and
now I can use this place added prop in my share place component and I can use it to redirect the user
whenever this changes. For that, I'll implement another lifecycle
hook here,
componentDidUpdate, there we will receive the previous props and the previous state but I don't need
either so I don't need to get these arguments,
instead what I want to do here is I simply want to check if this props place added,
if this is true because if it is true, then I will use this props navigator provided by react native
navigation to call switch to tab and switch to the tab with the index one, so I'll pass an object with
tab
index 0, excuse me 0 not 1.
So this will ensure that I go there whenever we did successfully update,
so whenever this props place added essentially switched to true. Thereafter, I could already dispatch
the action to switch it back to false though, so I could import this action,
let's add an import at the top and point to this index file
in my store actions folder and from there, I can get my
start add place action and now I can bind it at the bottom of the share place screen,
here we have on add place,
I also want to have on start add
place, so a function with no arguments where I in the end just dispatch place start add place as an action creator like
this.
Now I can call on start add place to essentially,
well reset this, so here I can call this props on start add place.
I will comment this out though because I first of all I want to see how it behaves
if we don't do this and then I will later see where else we could do that.
So for now, we're just switching the tab whenever we're done,
let's see if that all works.
Make sure that all files are saved and then reload your application,
I'll also connect it to my debugger here
and then I will again pick an image here from the library,
maybe this one, locate myself and share this place and we're staying on the page. Once we're done we're
redirected to find places, if I go back to share place,
I can work on this page again though.
If I do pick an image here,
I am redirected though, the reason for this is that I can navigate back because navigating there
doesn't trigger componentDidMount
but as soon as I change something on the page, maybe type here, I trigger a re-render because I update
my state, so componentDidMount is executed and place added still will be true because we never
reset it.
Now calling this right after switching would reset it
but there also is a different place where we can do that and that place is using a react native navigation
hook so to say, so a function which is executed when this page becomes visible.
Now one important thing, this page, this screen is not unmounted if we navigate away,
I mentioned this before,
it's just hidden so to say
but if you want to know when the user visits it, you can use a functionality provided by react native
navigation. We actually already register navigator events here in the constructor
using a react native navigation feature therefore we have this on navigator event and there, we check if the
event type is nav bar button press.
Now let's actually log this event object to see if there is something useful for us.
If I reload the app now and I go back to share place, you'll see here are a couple of logs
and for example we have this will appear ID here,
so we got the screen changed event, will appear and did appear and there also will be will disappear
and did disappear,
so you can really find out if the screen is visible or not.
Now that's great,
I can now check if event type is equal to and there it was screen changed event, so I'll copy that and
if it is, I can check if the event ID is equal to will appear, so right before it becomes visible.
And there, I now want to call this props on start add place to reset this place added prop.
With that change, if we now reload this,
we should be in a state where we can go to this page
and of course, since it's a first time, we have no problem picking anything so we can just try this
out, enter something here and share this place but it'll be interesting once this is done and once
it redirects us to find place.
If I now go back,
you see I can work on this page again and I can also submit everything here again
because now, we essentially reset this, we reset place added.
That is why this is now working and this is how you can use these lifecycle hooks provided by react
native navigation.